Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform, uniquely combined industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
our weekly discussion With web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing Total
number four 25. In this
episode, Scott talks with Susie
wheat CTO of networked experiences
at Cisco about shoulder to
shoulder, remote collaborations. This is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
I'm here in San Francisco
at Cisco DevNet. We're at
the Moscone center West, and
I'm talking with Susie wee.
You're the CTO CTO of
networked experiences, network experience as
well. I saw some pretty
amazing network experiences hanging out
here at dev net just
as I come up the
escalator. And I turn the
corner. I see not one
but 10 different HDTVs, kind
of in a massive full-sized
body, body height wall. Yep.
It's almost like a half
a room. It was. What
is that? It's pretty cool.
So that's a, that's one
of our innovation projects is
call it augmented collaboration. So
basically what we're trying to
do is look at, you
know, we have a lot
of great collaboration tools today,
but what could we really
do to get to that
next generation of collaboration? Like
technology is amazing, but the
question is what kind of
like human problems do we
want to solve and what
kind of human experiences do
we want to give? So
what we did was we
actually sat down with kind
of a use case that
happens all the time, which
is, you know, we had
a reorg, I had a
new team. First thing we
did with the new team
was having offsite. And then
we had an amazing three-day
offsite. And you know, it's
just one of those meetings
where you get all these
people together, people have different
areas they're responsible for, but
everyone's getting to know each
other new team. You have
to figure out your new
directions. So people broke off
into groups and said, you
know, my user experience team
said, what are our top
three opportunities? What are top
three quick wins that we
could do? My customer experience,
trials team and my technical
technology innovation team. They all
kind of went to the
side, said, you know, again,
what are top three short
term wins are top three
longterm opportunities. We brought all
of this together. You know,
we had like kind of
papers full of brainstorming ideas.
How many people are we
talking about here? And we
had about a dozen people
there together, all in one
room, all in one room
and you know, three days.
And it was an amazing,
like everyone got to know
each other. We came up
with our directions and it's
just like, you go back
to that point. That's where
we set our strategy and
then boom, we executed. And
it was just amazing. But
at that time I was
the CTO, but what we
call CTO, chief technology and
experience officer for collaboration, that
team of folks like we
make WebEx, we make unified
communication, we make telepresence video.
And then we asked ourselves,
why did we have to
meet together in the same
room? This is embarrassing. We've
made some of the world's
best collab products, but we've
met in the room. You
know, did you notice that
at the time it was
that come up, it didn't
come up at the time
cause we're having such a
great meeting, you know, but
it came up later when,
you know, basically John Chambers is
trying to catalyze innovation at
Cisco and he made this
program called the tech fund,
which he set aside $10 million
so that any technologists could
kind of propose new ideas.
So we're like, Hey, that's
pretty good. Let's propose a
new idea. And we kind
of went back to that
situation and we had pictures
of ourselves, you know, it
was such a good meeting.
And then we're like, okay,
why, why were we all
in the same room? What
happened there? And so we
thought about it really hard.
And then we said, I
know the reason, the reason
we all had to be
in the same room is
because we don't have a
product designed around that specific
use case. Like that use
case where you need to
get people together, brainstorm about
our new ideas, break off
into groups, you know, fill
up these, you know, whiteboards
full of ideas and then
socialize them and make decisions
together. So there was really
no single product that was
designed for that. Like WebEx
is great. You know, you
can get like 200 people
on a phone call. You
can share a presentation, people
can talk, someone can be
in an airport. Some it
can be in Australia. So
I'm going to be at
their desk, you know, and
everyone can just meet, you
know, telepresence is great. You
can actually have like high
quality HD video. You can
make this like face to
face connection. I've built entire
remote teams using telepresence technology.
And you know, you can
just get really comfortable there
again. Great. But none of,
neither of those were actually
made for this type of
interactive brainstorming kind of thing.
Right. Right. I mean, I
work remotely as I think
some of the listeners know
I live in Portland, I've
always tried to solve the
remote worker problem with more
bandwidth and a higher definition
camera, but it breaks down
as soon as I say,
just look over my shoulder.
Oh yeah. Or let me
put this Use of paper.
I'm going to draw this
for you. Let me draw
this and let me show
it to you. The camera
I have literally, They held
sheets of paper up to
the camera and then they
have to wait for the
camera to focus. And he's
like, Oh yeah, destroys. It
does it completely does. And
that's kind of ridiculous that
that has to destroy the
flow. Like that's such a
just normal thing that we
do every day and, you
know, technology should be able
to do that. So what
we did was we, you
know, again, like I've really
been pushing, taking this experience
first approach. I mean, I'm
a technologist and I, I
could just total away at
technology all day long, but
then I realized you need
to think about the experience
first. So we took our
designer and we have this
kind of awesome designer. We
said, let's think about this
problem. So we started with
the problem statement, just thinking
about what people wanted to
do and try to design
a solution. And then what
we came up with was,
and I know this is
kind of big, but we
were just saying, don't constrain
yourself. Just think about what
people are doing. So we
actually have these kind of
10 touch screens, like kind
of two layers. Like it's
like a two by five.
You know, two of them
are in one wall. Two
of them are on the
other wall at 90 degrees.
And two of them are
kind of like at a
45 degree angle there. So
you kind of like get,
you know, get across of
this kind of L-shaped room
with these 10 screens on
one side of the wall
is just full what we
call head to toe telepresence
video. So it's not head
and shoulders. Like when you
do video conferencing today, you
often do like head and
shoulders video, but instead what
we did, and then you
sit there, you're kind of
like a discombobulated. Your head's
just kind of popped off.
And you're like floating with
this head and shoulders image
and you like see others.
But instead what we said
was it helps to see
the whole room, you know?
So we want like kind
of head to toe. Like
if people are like kind
of huddled next to each
other, we want to see
that if they're kind of
back, people are kind of
leaning back and, you know,
shrugging or just actively engaged.
You just want to see
all that. It just helps
you understand what's going on
in the room. It's hard
when you're remote to know
what's going on. We always
talk about those funny phones.
We call them the cling
on phone, you know, the
little Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
So when you're on the
cling on the phone, Hey
guys, I have a question.
I can't see their faces.
I don't know if they
could be rolling their eyes
at me. They are like,
thank you. I can't see
if they are or what
their posture is. I don't
even know if they have
on pants. It's crazy. It
is that I saw immediately.
Where's the team that is
remote on the other side
of that screen. Where are
they? We actually have two
of them. One's in Shanghai.
And then the other is
in San Jose right here.
We have the room, you
know, temporarily here in Moscone,
you know, at Cisco live
here in the dev net
zone. But yeah. Yeah. And
you, it, it feels like
they're behind it. Like, you
know what I'm saying? It
is, it does just to
propose for folks that are
listening this idea of, of
the, the field of view,
I think we're used to
very inexpensive go to best
buy and buy a hundred
dollar webcam. This is multiple
cameras working in concert with
each other, being stitched together,
very thoughtfully. And the quality
is really exceptional. Yeah. You
can imagine, like you have
like a three by two
set of screens. Like you
have like six HDTV screens
kind of like set up
there. And then what you
just see is the other
room. I mean, there's other
technologies, but you just see
the other room and you
just see the other people.
You're not thinking about the
technology. You're just thinking about
the people. Right. And so,
so that's kind of like
on one side of it.
So you get the full
head to toe telepresence video.
Now on the other screen,
what you see is basically
the content like then you
get to work and you
start working and what do
you wanna do? You wanna
do things like share documents,
but not only do you
want to share documents and
presentations, you kind of want
to write on it and
annotate and say, Oh, look
over here like this thing.
And then you start start
drawing. So you can do
that. You want to take
your presentation, you want to
make it full screen, or
you want to make it
half screen. You want to
just kind of use touch
gestures to like flip the
pages. You actually want to
go and start like just
using a whiteboard and sketching.
And when I write something,
you want to write something,
you should be able to
erase what I drew. I
should be able to erase
what you just like, what
you do in a normal
whiteboard, you know, and what
we actually call that is
like, when you're two people
are working at a whiteboard,
you kind of look at
each other, you look at
the board, you look at
the board, we actually call
that shoulder to shoulder collaboration.
And it's kind of interesting
because you're shoulder to shoulder,
sometimes you just kind of
tilt and look at the
board, you tilt your head,
you're looking at each other.
And what we wanted to
do was actually tank kind
of take that principle and
just like throw it across
the ocean. Right. So what
happens is on the left
wall is this whole content
collaboration board. You can look
at it and then you
turn your head to the
right a little bit. And
then on the wall, you
see your collaborator, who's across
the ocean, but you're shoulder
to shoulder with them. And
that's why we did that
kind of L-shape room. And
it's really cool because you
literally just start working shoulder
to shoulder. You know, you
know me in San Jose
with my team members in
Shanghai and then boom, you
know, you're just going, you
just forget that you're not
in the same place Now.
I just want to make
it like, I want, I
want this myself. You know
what I mean? Like it's
interesting that you point out
that, that the shape matters.
I spend a lot of
time working on remote work
issues and trying to fix
it again from the, from,
from the experience perspective of
me, right. You're trying to
solve the problem for general
teams doing shoulder to shoulder
for me as the center
of my universe. Absolutely. My
problem. And I solve my
problems too. Of course. So
originally I set up my
camera to look at me
and I said, Oh, well,
I've got enough bandwidth. I'll
just have a Skype call
running all the time. And
then I found that and
I set up a room
in Seattle and people would
come in and they would
see my, basically my face
or up my nose. And
I'm staring into I'm staring
into space and that made
people uncomfortable. And my head
was the wrong size. It
would be like a giant
42 inch head. So I
started to realize that the
size of the other person
and their orientation mattered. So
while I haven't, I didn't
have the idea that you
have the, the L shape
by moving the camera to
one side. It does give
you that, Oh, hello. I
didn't see you there turn.
So when someone comes in,
they're not looking up your
nose of your face, they're
seeing your side. And then
we oriented it, such that
if I had a body,
it would be facing this
direction in my office and
someone would peek in and
go, Hey, are you busy?
And I would turn my
head and go, no, come
on in. Awesome. That's cool.
I love that idea of,
wow. There's a meaning for
that. L-shape Yeah, there's definitely
an idea about it. And
I did it like, you
know, my husband who is
also a geek, so we
were like working in our
separate offices and then we
just, just tried it for
a little while to both
turn on our website. Well,
we do do that, but
in this case we actually
do. But in this case,
we were in different offices,
not that far away from
each other, but, but what
we are doing is we
actually just kind of for
a little while, just both
turned on our webcams. Right.
And so then we're sitting
there, we both had our
webcams on at the time.
And then I just tried
to like, leave it on
to just have that ambient
kind of, you know, kind
of awareness. Like you're kind
of next to each other,
but it was a little
bit freaky because it's the
webcam in front of him.
And then when he was
working on some documents and
then, you know, his window
covered up the video of
me, then maybe he forgot
I was looking at him,
but then he's kind of
looking like right below me,
because he's looking at his
laptop and the webcam's right
there, but he didn't know
what I was there. So
it was kind of nice,
but it was, I also
felt like I was spying
on him. Indeed know, I
didn't want, so once you
take it off the screen
though, and then you have
like the video in another
place, like where the person
would be can look at
your screen, you look at
the person, it gets to
be this more natural, more
natural interaction. Yeah, it definitely.
Yeah. And given that screens
are so inexpensive right now,
you know, if, if a
sense of telepresence and collaboration
is important to you simply
adding another screen is a
very nice, easily priced way
for someone like me to
put together a poor man's.
Yeah, definitely. Definitely Software that
you've got here is bringing
together a lot of different
things though. It's not just,
Hey, we've got a whole
bunch of screens and we
stack them on top of
each other. You've got the
collaboration and it seems like
it's kind of shocking. Cause
I remember doing real basic
video conferencing in the mid
nineties, maybe absolutely something entails
something share. I forgot what
it was called. Very tiny,
you know, three 20 by
two 40 Like CUSIP video
and like SIF. Yeah, exactly.
It was just horrific. I
mean, yeah. It was like
watching an animated GIF of
other people. I was working
on video back then as
well, like a game boy
camera. It was like, I
was like that. We're so
excited that like, Hey look
at those pixels, we got
a few pixels across, it
looks like a person. It
does Fast forward 20, 25
years. And I still don't
have a decent shared surface
for collaboration. You know, you
know, collaboration products, whether it
be WebEx from, in Cisco
or a product like link,
they still involve this gesture,
which is the no comes
the whiteboard. Yes. And it
doesn't look like anything. It's
like a poor man's paintbrush.
Yeah. I want to collaborate
on a document on a
presentation on a whole new
series of ideas with natural
gestures or within my, my
fingers or pen. It's interesting
because what happens is I'm
like, there's actually like everything
that you just didn't you
and I just talked about,
actually it's all out there.
You could say, Oh, well
you could use this for
that. You could use that
for that. You know, you
kind of add up together,
I'll use the Google Hangouts
for this. I'll use kind
of Evernote for that. And
I'll use, you have all
of these pieces in each
piece. Like some of them
were great, but the problem
is you don't have that
holistic experience. Right. So you're
like, Oh wait, let me
switch an app and go
over here to do that.
And then I'll like put
up my webcam and I
can do my video, you
know? But it's like, it's
kind of hard. Right. And
then basically kind of hard.
I mean, it's kind of
impossible, 15 minutes at the
beginning of every meeting and
these are technical people that
might be messing around. Can
we, can you share your
screen? Can you see it
now? Okay. My camera's not
on, can you hear me
now? Can you hear me
now? It doesn't feel like
that, that the fit first
15 minutes of every meeting
or just getting the meeting
set up. Well, we've actually
been working on that. So
we're actually do a little
bit better than that, but
it kind of depends. Yeah.
Cause we like have it
where you can actually just
kind of set up your
telepresence. You just dial in,
you kind of get your
WebEx connected. We probably have
it down to about five
minutes. But, but, but, but
you're right. But in general
it is kind of like
a mess and there's like
all sorts of stuff there.
And then kind of what
I call those experiences, like
where you're using these different
tools that are like mr.
Potato head experiences. Right? Cause
it's like, you're like, well,
here's a nose, there's my
video. And then here's this
other tool that I could
use to like share my
presentation and what happens is
even if each tool is
awesome, when you put them
all together, you still get
Frankenstein or mr. Potato head,
you have like all these
pieces kind of put together.
And so really what we're
going for is the designed
experience, right? So you have
some video there, you have
some content here, you can
switch between them. And you
want to think about the
whole workflow and not just
the one thing you definitely
want to integrate third party
tools. Like it's not that
we have to build everything
ourselves, but you want to
think about that holistic experience
and how they come together.
So you don't have a
mr. Potato head experienced when
you have a mr. Potato.
Like you've been in those
rooms where you go to
a room and there's some,
you know, like, there's your,
your cling on phones, that
what you call it, you're
calling on phone in there.
There's like a projector, right?
There's like some kind of
a smart board. And then
you like walk into the
room and then there's like
two VGA connections, you know?
Like I want to project
my laptop and there's these
two VGA connections. How does
it work? And then there's
like two remotes. And then
you sit there and you
like plug it into your
laptop, Come to our offices
at Microsoft. Yes, that's exactly
right. We actually have a
connector that comes out now
with a key ring of
other connectors so that you
can figure out how to,
and then you can, They
never worked. They never, until
the thing is these rooms
never work. Like, cause then
you like try one and
then you try the other
and then you like grab
the thing. And then you're
a, you know, with, you
know, you don't know which
remote's working and then you
stand up on the table,
they hit the projector with
your fingers. Inevitably, I may
be able to get the
projection up for the local
people, but then it's like,
well, can you guys see
it on the remote? It's
not integrated. Yeah. What was
amazing about yours was that
there wasn't ever a sense
of, I was in an
app. Yeah. If I may.
Yeah. There was a, when
I got there and I
stepped into it, it was
just all people. And then
the gentlemen just swiped his
hand and I thought there
was like a connect hidden
somewhere. But he, it, it,
he swiped his hand and
then four of the TVs
switch to show a PowerPoint
presentation. Yeah. But I didn't
see PowerPoint. No, you know
what I'm saying? There was
no Chrome. And it was
very comforting. The reason we
had to do that is
like we were thinking about,
well, we want to show
PowerPoint and PowerPoint's great. It's
the best way to make
slides. You know, you can
kind of share those, but
if we take this kind
of, you know, big screen
touch interface system, and then
you throw up like windows,
PowerPoint, which has made for
a keyboard and a mouse,
then you're trying to use
your finger to click on
the menus, which are not
made for your finger. And
then you're just like, Oh,
I feel like my fingers
really fat, you know, it's
good and you can't control
it. So we actually had
to make our own viewers
and really, and just simplify,
we just simplified out just
like, all right, we're not
allowing, you know, certain kind
of fancy things here. We
just want to do next
slide. Previous slide, go full
screen, go smaller and just
do like two fingers up,
two fingers down, pinch zoom,
you know? So just try
to make it very natural.
And there's all sorts of
actually really advanced technologies that
we're testing and putting in
the system. Like you could
just, it's like technology to
light. Right? You could put
everything in there. But what
we had had to do
is really do the experience
simplification because the thing that
we cared about is whether
people could use it. Right.
So we actually wanted to
get down to like maybe
10 gestures or less than
probably fewer than that. We
actually want to just something
where people could kind of
watch someone do it and
then be able to use
it themselves. We didn't want
people to feel dumb. You
know? Like you just kind
of feel dumb when you're
trying to use the technology.
But you think about it.
You're collaborating when you're presenting
and you want to work
together. You don't want to
feel dumb, right? You want
to present, you want to
feel smart. You know, you
can't have the tools hold
you down. So that was
kind of, those were like
some of the design principles
that we were using is
just want to make it
so simple and think of
the user first. And then
just like simplify. We used
to have voice commands in
there and we're sitting there
and say, okay, next slide.
And then boom, the slide
changes, make it bigger. And
then it would go full
screen. And that was all
great. But then every so
often I'd be just talking
to somebody and then the
slides would change. And, and
then, you know, John Chambers was
actually coming in for a
demo and then we're like,
okay, we're going to take
that feature out. Cause we
don't want the slides changing
as John comes by. So,
so, so like there's a
whole bunch of extra things
we tried, but we took
some of them out cause
they weren't reliable. But like
one cool thing that is
good as we take the
video, we turn it off.
We actually do. Or we,
sorry, you know, kind of
fork it off. We're actually
doing video analysis. We like
find, identify faces. And then
we put people's names above
their heads. So a small
thing, but it's so useful.
Right? People, People I've worked
at Microsoft now like six
years and I go up
and visit and people, Hey,
it's great to see you.
And like, I don't know
who you are. I know
we've worked together for five
years and you no longer
look like the picture on
your badge that shows up
in outlook, you've worked at
the company 20 years. You
don't like to see it.
Exactly. So, and then I
like, Hey buddy, who is
that? That's John. You've worked
with them for the last
50 hours. Like I know
them from an email alias
and from an old picture.
And then when I see
them in person or on
video, I have no idea
To be honest, it's hard
for me. Cause like I'm
a woman, you know, there's
not many women in tech.
So it's kind of easy
for people to remember me,
but I can't remember everybody
either. So we added like
kind of just the face
recognition. Right? And then it
just gives you a little
hint. Maybe it doesn't know
someone's name. It leaves it
blank. But if it does
find someone, it just puts
their name over their heads.
Brilliant. Let's just, it makes
me feel better to The,
to the point about the
voice recognition. There's a funny
story about the Xbox one,
which you can tell, turn
on and off someone changed
their gamer tag to X-Box
turn off. So then he
goes, this is true story.
This actually happened. You can
watch the video. So he
goes in and he starts
shooting people in call of
duty and I'm like, Oh,
Xbox, turn off. Don't turn
off. That's awesome. It's a
great Frank it's one way
to win, shut shutting machines
down left and right. Cool.
That makes sense though, because
I want to go into
a room. I want to
collaborate with a whiteboard. I
shouldn't have to talk to
the white board. Yes. That
makes sense. That the fact
that we're talking about users,
dinner design in a way
that somehow like, that's amazing.
Why should it be amazing?
Why am I so amazed
that that's the case? That's
plenty. Yeah, no, no, no.
It's, it's funny because, because
it's still rare. Like, so
we can still say like,
listen, and I've been pushing
this kind of for the
last 10 years now is
just you, you know, again,
I'm like techie geek. So
started like video video compression,
video transcoding and video over
networks, you know? So looking
at martini yesterday, I mean
you were employed in the
JPEG 2000 spec, is that
correct? I helped add security
to JPEG 2000. Even before
that in the, in the
early nineties I was studying
at MIT, but I was
doing my, my work on
HDTV. So we're actually defining
the HDTV technologies, which are
now commonplace, but certainly were
not in the early nineties.
So you have been kind
of working on that stuff
for a long time. You
know, I was like convincing
myself, you know, cause like
video over networks was my
field video streaming. I was
like, yeah, let's do some
video conferencing. It works. And
then you get this little
like posted stamp size video.
Cause it's like QCF resolution,
you know? And then you
like, you know, you have
this little version of your
head, you like slide over,
you got the blocking artifacts,
your nose stays there while
your head moves. And then
we're just like, this is
great. We're video conferencing. Well
kind of, you know, but
then, you know, so I
was at HP at the
time and Cisco is doing
telepresence, but HP did HP
halo working together with Dreamworks.
And what we did was
we actually thought let's revisit
all of those assumptions. Like
yeah. Why do you have
to use low bandwidth? Like
just assume that we can
go to higher bandwidth cause
that's going to come, right.
Let's use bigger screens. Let's
not constrain ourselves with costs
at this moment, but we'll
go back to that later.
And then we came up
with what is now, what
was HP halo, which was,
you know, kind of the
immersive telepresence and Cisco did
immersive telepresence, you know, kind
of in parallel at the
same time. And then all
of a sudden you're having
HD video, right? So you're
giving like HDTV quality video,
you know, larger screens. And
then you're like, wow, this
is video conferencing. That other
stuff we were pretending was
video conferencing. But now this
is, and so it was
just because what we did
was we put the experience
first and then develop the
technology around it. And then
video conferencing was not just
video conferencing. It really turned
into video conferencing. And so
at that point I made
the realization that experience matters.
So I could still twiddle
away with, you know, bits
and compression and streaming and
networking all the time. But
if you think experience first,
it actually gets harder. Cause
you think what's the experience
I want to give. I
want to simplify it. And
then you have to do
all of the technology acrobatics
to make that simple experience
and it's Yeah. And it's
definitely harder than just specs.
Like I, I went and
I got my a hundred
dollar webcam and I at
my I seven processor and
I said, look at that
and I've got 10 ADP
looks great. It couldn't be
any better than this. And
then when the Cisco Boomi
happened, I immediately bought two
Zumiez. And I said, Oh,
that's what Trinity P looks
like. I had been using
kind of muddy, a tiny,
tiny little seamless sensor, you
know, kind of, it was
muddied Trinity P at about
10 or 15 frames a
second. And then when I
went to the army, it
was like either 30 or
60 frames, a second. There's
like a streaming blue Ray.
You know what I mean?
It was like, here I
am looking at two streams
of 10 ADP and I
can't, it's like, you know,
getting a new contact lenses.
It's just like, I can't
even look at this anymore.
Like suddenly 10 80 P
video on my cheap webcam
offends me. I must like,
this is now the standard
by which all video It
is, it goes up. But
then you probably started to
get value out of it.
Yeah. Because I could see
expressions. I could see the
fluidity, the difference between 10
or 15 frames a second
in 30 or 60 when
it comes to movement. It's
just unbelievable. It was as
if they were sitting there.
Yeah. Yeah. You just get
over that. You just get
kind of over that threshold
to where it's like, yes,
like now I know you,
right. Especially if you're working
remotely and it's hard for
me to do like just
audio, you know? But when
you see somebody then you
know them, The, the idea
that it has to be
audio or that, and as
a remote worker, if I
can get video out of
someone, that's a joy. When
I, when I was in
Seattle a couple of days
ago, someone said, Oh, I'd
love to meet when he,
how long you need to
be up here. And I
said, Oh, I'm going back
home today. Oh, well give
me a call next time.
You're up next time. I'm
up. I'm on link on
10 80 P video all
day long. Every day I
am available on conference calls.
I can talk to you
on an eight, whatever I'm
no, no, no. Just call
me when you're up. Well,
wait a second. I appreciate
that. You want to see
me in person, but what
is missing in my experience?
Like what is so not
satisfying about the experience that
you, you don't even want
to try to Skype me.
Yeah. Yeah. Clearly it's not
working. Cause that, that, that,
that idea of will call
me next time you're in.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Means
that the solution I have
doesn't work. That's right. That's
right. Well, and I think
what we want to do
is so, so now you
get to the stage where
like, okay, video is better,
right. Video is good. You
can actually create that. And
then what we're trying to
do next with this augmented
collaboration is to say, well,
the next thing, like, think
when you get to know
somebody and then when you
like, you've like really work
together and know each other,
but if you've whiteboard it
together, right. You just kind
of thought of an idea.
You went up to the
whiteboard, you guys kind of
work through something, then you
really feel like, you know,
the person going through battles.
Yeah, exactly. It's a shared
experience. Then you're gonna remember
their name right at that
stage. Well, and that's why
we have Of off sites.
And we've all gone to
those kinds of corporate training
things where they bring some
third party in with a
whiteboard. And then you do
your, you have that experience,
that shoulder to shoulder experience.
Yeah. And then you know
that it's not just like
you had a formal presentation
and then you listened and
you ask them did some
Q and a, but you've
created something together, you know?
And so those ideas that
like, after you get to
that part of our relationship
where you've kind of co-created
bounce some ideas, well, well,
let me try to draw
this. Right. You kind of
get to that stage where
people are writing on the
board. That gets really interesting.
So people can, can people
see a video of this
somewhere? Like I know I'm
seeing a link, I'll give
you a link to a
video. Okay. We'll put that
in the show notes to
make sure that people can
learn more about this. Yeah,
it sounds great. And this
is just an idea right
now it's being breached. No,
it's just an idea. So
it's an innovation, it's an
idea. We've kind of put
it to prototype. We don't
have a decision to productize
it, but we're trying to
do is kind of get
user feedback. Right. So we
actually want to show the
innovation. Like we're still using
kind of agile development and
we're adding new features, but
you know, it's one thing
that like my team and
I, we created it and
we can use it between
us. And of course we
love it, but we created
it. So that's not really
a fair kind of judge
of it, you know, it
demos quite well. And so
when we demo it, then
like people get of course,
very excited. What we understand
is how do people use
it, you know? And will
people use it and how
does that go? So we're
going to do is like
try to study that some
more and then try to
get more feedback. And, you
know, maybe the whole thing
becomes a product. Maybe it
doesn't, or maybe elements of
it become a problem, you
know? So it's just kind
of like going through that
next stage of innovation and
kind of that's what, Or
working on it and you're
using it like your, your,
you spend time in this
thing and you use it
to build itself. Yeah. And
actually I have a video
of like using spring roll
to, to make spring roll.
Right. So basically we were
actually kind of spring rolls
our code name for it.
So basically the project was
first approved in the spring
and we use kind of
rolling iterations and agile and
it's a little Asian and
you know, much of my
innovation teams in Shanghai. So
my family's from Korea, like
I'm American, but my team
happens to be in Shanghai
and they've been working really
hard on it, but they
just kind of code named
it spring roll. But, but
yeah, like we just kind
of get in there. We
have our meetings in there,
we use it. It's really
nice and interactive. And then,
you know, we figure out
how can we improve it?
And the best thing is
when you're meeting, then you
kind of get more ideas
on what needs to be
in there. Next it's the
best idea. So what we
want to do is now
get other people in there
using it to get their
feedback. Well, do you think
that there could be more
than two, then you could
have three or four and
split things up and have,
It can be in there's
actually even more than that.
So what we've done actually,
since, you know, the, the
initial build, like, you know,
when you first build it,
you want to get something
going as quick as possible,
do the, to get it
going. And what we've actually
done now is we've actually,
and we kind of built
it for two rooms to
work together, but now we
actually did a number of
things. We've actually shifted it
to more of a cloud
based architecture. So you can
actually do things like white
boarding document sharing. We actually
have sticky notes, which we
didn't talk about here. We
have all these features and
those are just each cloud
services. And then an end
point could be, you know,
one of those big rooms,
but you could also, we
also have an iPad client.
So you could actually also
do your interactions through an
iPad. Client can actually just
call into any video. And
so we've actually kind of
scaled it out, you know,
over the collaboration kind of
strategy for Cisco is to
kind of let people collaborate
from the browser to the
boardroom, you know, so you'd
kind of have like the
higher end stuff, but all
the way down to making
it mobile and pervasive. So
we're actually kind of playing
with all of these different
kind of form factors in
situations as well. Cause you
still want to get like
the guy in an airport,
you know, the person at
a convention still trying to
dial into their meeting. So
we're still trying to make
all that happen as well.
Yeah. Very cool. Thank you
so much, Susie wee for
checking with me today here
at DevNet at Cisco alive.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and we'll
see you again next week.
.